
DHAKHXAYAH
THE LESS
SPARKLED DARK
SIDE OF
INDIA
WRITTEN
BY
DHAKHXAYAH

DARK
SIDE OF
 SYNOPSIS
CHAPTER – 1
EDUCATION IN INDIA SUCKS
CHAPTER – 2
EXISTING CASTEISM
CHAPTER – 3
THE WEAKER SEX
CONCLUSION

 WRITTEN BY
 DHAKHXAYAH


 IINTRODUCTION
India is the largest democractic country in the world. It has a
civilisation that is more than 5000 years old and boasts of multiple
culture origins. Our country has diverse languages, cultures and
religion but this creates a great problem in India. There are some dark
sides for India too which has less sparkling of government actions.
Hence this book deals with major problems in India and how it can be
cleared to have a developed country.



 CHAPTER – 1
 EDUCATION IN INDIA SUCKS
 Education plays a dominant role in all our lives. It brings out the
capabilities to fight against the injustice happening all around. What we acquire
today must be relevant tomorrow. But is that happening in India? Schools in
India teach students how to succeed in their lives but not how to handle failures.
Students always ask Why should we learn? Even I take part in this question.
The reason behind it is we don't know how to learn. My question here is, even if
we understand the concepts and score good marks in examinations, are they
relevant in our future. NO, so what is the use of learning something which is not
going to work. Prominently students are memorizing the concepts just for
marks. Teachers are the ones who could grab the attention of students and make
the subjects more interesting. Every profession needs a trained employee, but a
teacher is not just a profession; it moulds a child's career. So why aren't teachers
trained? And for how many years are we going to continue the same boring
education system.
 Education has become a compulsion for students. India is known for its rich
young minds. But this education system has suppressed their talents and made
them dependent on marks. That’s why we still work as an employee but not as
an employer.
 I remember once, I have read in my social studies that education must be
provided for every individual for free. This is only provided by the government
institutions. But most of us are least bothered about government schools.
Sending kids to private school has increased parent’s status in the society. All of
us here are bound around a paper called money, which constraints our
livelihood. Literally, education has become a profitable business in our society.
The ones who have money gain a facilitated education, but what about the one
who doesn’t. Some poor families send their children to school for a mid-daymeal. But some still make their children work for hours, with or without
interest. Middle class people fall into debts to pay their child’s school fee.

 There are totally 10.83 lakh government schools in India, out of which
42,000 government schools lack a drinking water supply and 15,000
government schools have no toilets. Only 57% of schools have playground. But
we wonder why India doesn’t produce gold medals in Olympic despite huge
population. Most of the physical training classes are borrowed by subject
teachers and they just focus on completing the portions but doesn’t bother
whether the student understands it or not.
 PARENTS PRESSURE
 In India individual’s aspirations are ignored because of stereotypic parents.
Parents want their kids to be educated just to take pride amongst their family or
their neighbours but not for their children’s future. Ranks in class and grades are
announced, which often has a negative impact on some students, who may not
be the best. People think that toppers in exams are wiser person more than an
average student. People don’t develop interest in their interested subjects but
seek to learn which is currently running the market. 80% of engineers are
unemployed, the reason behind it is due to low skill and no interest.
Competition in world stresses students and leads them to commit suicide. It may
be a government, state board, CBSE or ICSE syllabus, everything is based on
mugging up the concepts and so toppers who score 100% in their school
syllabus fail to pass in the competitive examinations.
 COMMUNITY GAINS EDUCATION
 Out of all these struggles education and scholarship is based on community.
The unexpected covid19 pandemic twisted the world upside down. The students
who had allowance to acquire education from the government school lost their
chances. Government school students had no access to mobile phones or books.
Their classes were telecasted on a TV channel. But how many would have
watched those? The force from private institutions led both parents and students
fall into stress.
 As I mentioned before, education gives us capabilities to fight against
injustice. We as a literate citizen must take an initiative against these crises
instead of just pointing out the flaws. India has also produced great scientists,
mathematicians, CEOs and world leaders. So, what does this mean, we have the
potential, but we are channelling it in a wrong direction. India is still a
developing country with great minds. The mystery lies here, if the huge

population is provided with proper and equal education, they can provide master
development for our country. India only spends 3 to 4% of its GDP on
education. This percentage must be increased. Need to shift the focus away
from books to real life application of knowledge. Infrastructure must be
improvised for a good learning environment. Swachh Bharat must not be only
before media, must be in the schools also. Constructing toilets and electricity is
not a matter, they must be used in daily life. Our country does not need
graduates with degrees we also need students with right skills. A single mark
sheet cannot decide a student’s knowledge. Believe and encourage the students.
 Think! should we still be a developing country by continuing the same
education system.
 CHAPTER -2
 EXISTING CASTEISM
 India’s caste system is 3000 years old. When India gained independence,
discrimination based on caste was made illegal, but the cases of violence against
the lower caste are still reported on a daily basis. When we flip the dates back
people were broadly divided into 5 categories namely
 -BRAHMINS
 -KSHATRIYAS
 -VAISHYAS
 -SHUDRAS and
 -DALITS.
 These differentiations were based on people’s occupations. But really turned
the society violent. In India caste has a lot to do with crimes. 16% of the
population in India are Dalits. In 2014 – 2018, 50% of violence in UTTAR
PRADESH were against Dalits, 15% in HARYANA,14% in MADHYA
PRADESH,11% in MAHARASHTRA and 26% in GUJRAT. 50% of the Dalits
are not allowed to enter the police stations. As a result, 25% of crime has been
increased against the minorities. In AGRA, a family was not allowed to take
part in the last rights of their raped daughter, the police could do such brutality
against the family as they were minorities. The Dalit poor father lost his limbs
for protesting against his daughter’s gang rape by the upper caste men.
 As I mentioned in the first chapter, government schools are just known for
untouchables. They could not pursue they higher education. Even if they pursue

their graduation and have good skills, people will never investigate those,
instead they would give much priority to their caste. The great president of
India, Sri Ram Nath Kovind who is an advocate by his profession was
discriminated based on his caste. Higher caste people made him to sit on the
stairs in the temple and pray. Ex-Bihar minister CM Jeetan Ram Manjhi also
faced such a discrimination. The temple was washed after his visit. A
politician’s caste continues to be an important deciding factor for many voters.
 If you are a woman and belonged to a Dalit community. Of course! You
could have a desperate life. Because of poverty women are forced to be sex
worker. No Human Rights stands by your side when you are terribly raped. On
an average 5 Dalit women are raped every single day; this is a data given by
NCRP.
 JOB FOR ENTIRE GENERATION
 Those at the bottom are considered ‘LESSER HUMAN BEINGS’, impure
and polluting to other caste groups. Dalits are often forcibly assigned the
dirtiest, menial and hazardous jobs, and many are subjected to forced and
bonded labour. Their entire family and kids must follow the same tireless
drudgery. Due to exclusion practiced by both state and non-state actors, they
have limited access to resources, services and development, keeping most Dalits
in severe poverty. Lower caste people were not born as a poor, it was higher
caste society who grabbed their provisions. Dalits were brutally beaten up if
they had seen using the common utility water ponds and if their shadows touch
the higher caste people. It really doesn’t make any sense. This is the case of
Dalits in remote areas. But what about the condition in the urban cities? Has
casteism swept out in urban cities? It lies in every corner of India.
 People here don’t believe in casteism, but they are privileged to say that
they belong to general category. Most of them are educated but still, they don’t
want to have an inter- caste marriage and fetch friends from another caste. My
educated parents did not teach me what caste was till my 6th grade. I finally
came to know about caste through my textbooks. After having good knowledge
about caste, my mom once told me to fetch friends from our caste. That really
didn’t sound good for me. My altruistic father helps the lower caste people, but
when it comes to communication, he does not behave in the same way how he
does with our same caste neighbours. The same is being practised all over the
country. When will this harsh reality would be burnt off?




 HARSH REALITY
 I would like to narrate a small incident. One of our tenants had no batter for
their dinner. Just opposite to our home, there was a family who were selling
batter. She enquired to my grandmother about the quality of their batter. My
grandmother replied, ‘it’s good’. Later she asked which caste they belonged to?
When my grandmother said, they belonged to the lower caste. She got flustered
and refused to buy batter from them. I got aggravated by their conversation but
was not able to expose my views. As a matured person I know what is right and
what is wrong, but what if an innocent child has listened to their conversation.
Probably he or she may practice the same in the future. Isn’t it Right?! And
there won’t be any solution to end this casteism. Just think what would happen
if these Dalits do not work for 24 hours. The country would really crash. Think
about the uncleaned roads and bad odour sewages. We would not be able to
have our daily meals, if they don’t practice agriculture. They work in dirty
places for us. They deserve respect from us.
 RESERVATION
When caste topic is negotiated in public, urban people would always speak
about reserved seats. Reservation was not formed for the economic status of the
community; it was formed to prohibit the oppression of Dalits. However,
reservation also has the negative side. People with skills and being in general
category do not receive their expected jobs but it has been received by some
SC/ST category people. School is the place where children must be taught the
negative side of caste. But still now schools ask to fill the caste, religion and
community blanks by the students. In KERALA more than 1 Lakh students
ignored filling those blanks. Which is to be appreciated. I also wish this to
happen all over India. If we want to eradicate reservation, first we must
terminate discrimination based on caste. No one earns the superiority by birth.
B.R. Ambedkar and Periyar. E.V. Ramasamy who were against caste and
created great revolutions. But now they are portrayed as caste leaders.
 WHAT IS YOUR IDENTITY?
 Hey readers, just listen caste can never become your identity. Your skills are
the only identity which you pursue. Your achievements are your legacy. There
are no 5 categories of people in India, there are only two. The people who have
money, and the people who don’t. The people who don’t have money
experience inequalities. To wipe out this problem every individual’s Aadhaar

card must be filled with their lacking needs and preference must be given on
that basis. Machines can be implemented instead of expecting Dalit’s work.
Either general category or Dalits, everybody deserves respect and freedom by
birth. Let’s stop talking about this topic and start executing actions against the
oppression of Dalits for a developed and equality-based India.

 CHAPTER – 3
 THE WEAKER SEX
 The previous chapters create a severe impact in women’s life.
Discrimination against women and girls is a pervasive and long – running
phenomenon that characterises Indian society at every level. In countries like
India, there is a preference for sons over daughters due to patrilineal inheritance
which happens through sons, and they tend to be the providers for their parents
in old age. This leads sex – selective abortions and less investment in their
daughters in terms of time, money, education and attention when compared to
their sons. The belief would be that if a boy is born then it’s a celebration and if
a girl is born, it’s a burden. Women are accused of not producing boy babies for
their families. In India rights for women is pretty good in papers, but not in
practice. India has passed a lot of specific laws for women that protect them
from: Sati, Dowry, sexual harassment, child marriage, indecent representation
of women, domestic violence and many more. But wonder what, it is still
existing. The specific government schemes include: The national commission
for women as well as acts for property, equal remuneration and maternity
benefits. The list is endless. But why are the women in India are still struggling?
 LIVING OBJECTS
 Women all over the world are considered as a product or a sex toy. A
child is sexually abused every 15 minutes in India. Over 600 child rape cases
were filled till May of this year in Kerala. Women are traditionally considered
by the society as weaker sex. Marriages in India gives license for a man to rape
his wife. It is reported that 90% of women are raped by their husbands when
compared with the outsiders. This is how India became the 4th dangerous
country for a woman to survive. Delhi is not just the capital of India; it is also
called as rape capital of India. But Bihar has ceased its greatness in recent years.
Women are always objectified. They only have one purpose, nothing else. Child
abuse cases are constantly increasing in India when compared with adult
women. The whole society corners women for wearing short clothes and
hanging out with her boyfriends are the reasons for her rape. But I really don’t
understand what sort of clothes Asifa was wearing during her rape. I question
myself that how could a man compare a child with lust. Sexual harassment had
become a norm with women. Of course, every woman in this world has faced
sexual harassment. It has become okay to just slightly tap a girl on her bum and
make hateful comments. The society only teaches a woman to wear fully
covered clothes but never teaches a man to not watch at her in an abusive

manner. The society never teaches a man to not touch a woman without her
permission, but a woman is being taught to just ignore it. But if she raises her
voice against it, she would be named as a prostitute. Even in movies actresses
are not given great roles like actors, they just appear in romantic scenes and
vanish out from the movie. The first hero for every girl is her father, but how
could some heartless fathers in this world could make their child as a rape
victim? Every woman in this world should prove that they are not a toy
anymore by raising their voice against injustice.
 UNPAID EMPLOYMENT
 In this stereotypic world, women work for hours together but they are either
paid less or paid with nothing. Even if men and women work in the same office,
for the same amount of time and at the same positions with equal skills, their
gender decides their payment. In recent years women are given with maternity
leaves, but what about people working in unorganised sectors? Top Bollywood,
Hollywood actresses have also spoken about the same topic, but no one
acknowledged it. Women are less likely to find jobs than men even after having
good skills. Indeed, their access to quality employment opportunities remains
restricted.
 IMMATURED MARRIAGE
 Teenagers are most prominent to child marriages where girls are the
strugglers at the end. At least 1.5 million girls under18 are married in India.
Nearly16% of adolescent girls aged 15 – 19 are currently married. Girls are
forced to marry at a very young age by denying their dreams. They are also
forced to marry an elderly man who may also have many wives
[POLYGAMY]. In olden days when a woman’s husband faced his death, she
was also asked to fire herself in her consciousness [SATI]. Society really
spoiled the life of young women by naming them as widows and making them
stay away from their religious context and rudely criticised them if they had lost
their husbands. Even in this modern world girls are married in the age of 18 or
19 before their graduation. Girls and boys married as children more likely to
lack the skills, knowledge and job prospects needed to lift their families out of
poverty and contribute to their country’s social and economic growth. Early
marriage leads girls to have children earlier and more children over their
lifetime, increasing economic burden on the household. The lack of adequate
investments in many countries to end child marriage is likely due in part to the
fact that the economic cases for ending the practice has not yet been made
forcefully. As a result of norms assigning lower value to girls, as compared to
boys, girls are perceived to have no alternative role other than to getting

married. And are expected to help with domestic chores and undertake
household responsibilities in preparation for their marriage. Child marriage
negatively affects the Indian economy and can lead to an intergenerational cycle
of poverty. Evidence shows that critical game changers for adolescent girl’s
empowerment include postponing marriage beyond the legal age, improving
their health and nutritional status, supporting girls to transition to secondary
school, and helping them develop marketable skills so that they can realize their
economic potential and transition into healthy, productive and empowered
adults.
 STEREOTYPES
 Women are sold in India in the name of marriage. More than 8,000 women
die as a result of India’s dowry system each year. Sometimes a woman is
murdered by her husband or in-laws when her family can’t raise the requested
dowry gift. Other times, women commit suicide after facing harassment and
abuse for failing to meet the dowry price. The brutal reality of the dowry system
is not the story of rural areas only. Even the educated family sitting in
metropolitan cities like Delhi and Bangalore is harassing a woman for not
bringing enough gold or money. Not more than 16 days of the year 2020 had
passed, Bengaluru, the Silicon Valley of India, reported 17 cases of abuse and
death of women for dowry as mentioned in THE NEW INDIAN EXPRESS.
But in some bride’s houses it is a great privilege for them to sell their daughter
with dowry. When is this going to end?
 She is given unequal importance amongst her family. Ads also play a very
important role in our lives. Women in Indian ads are almost always busy in
cooking, cleaning, washing clothes and utensils. These ads reinforce the notion
that all housework women perform is noble, selfless and almost the essence of
womanhood itself. A perfect mother, sister, wife, or daughter- in law is the one
who aspires to run their household without feeling like it’s a burden. These ads
portray that the domestic work is not a hark work. But it is! An average Indian
woman spends almost 352 minutes a day on unpaid work. But an average Indian
man spends only 52 minutes a day on housework. Economists have calculated
that if women were actually paid for their domestic work, it would amount to 90
lakh crores of rupees per year. The work women do to keep a household
running smoothly is not easy or necessarily joyful. By portraying it that way,
these ads diminish the real worth it holds. Till we acknowledge not just the
value of this work, but the fact that it is time – consuming, gruelling, and
exhausting, very little will change on and off screen. Change is not just about

symbolically ‘sharing the load’. It’s about recognising the burden of this load
and giving it the respect and value, it deserves.
 It is okay for a man to be dark, but a woman should never be dark or dusky,
she should look like an object dipped into a milk. Even sentiments like, “She is
really lucky that he married her despite her dark complexion” are still whispered
around India. Aunties all over the world advice young girls to slap their faces
with varieties of paste, so that they would be attracted by men. In the name of
freedom women are given with lots of restrictions. Women are taught how to
walk, how to dress, how to speak and to the core they are asked to confine their
laughs. It is believed that epic MAHABHARATAM happened because of
sarcastic smile of Draupadi. Restrictions for women would never end unless and
until the stereotypic mind dies.
 If society must change, we as an individual should change our minds. Women
must share their desperate situations with their family especially with their
younger generations. I don’t ask men to respect women, but I want them to treat
women as a human being who also have sensitive emotions. Women are
glorifying in various fields like education, sports, politics, occupation and many
more. A woman is never less than a man.

 HEY WOMAN
Hey beautiful woman,
Your beauty lies in your talent not in your body.
People think that you are as soft as a rose.
So just show your thorns before their arms touch you.
Do not make yourself as a victim for the culprits.
Do not invest yourself to the people who do not pay you the credit.
Just ignore the one, who neglects you.
Make yourself brave to achieve the things which you crave.
At last, make your sign as an autograph.

Written By
Dhakhxayah

 CONCLUSION
Everyone in this world is equal, no one is less than the other irrespective of their
class, creed, gender, colour, caste, religion and any other. We are all one here
with a caste called ‘INDIA’. We must stay united and work for the development
of our country. We must educate ourselves with new technologies. Proper
education is the only power of a developed country. We still didn’t gain
independence from casteism and inequality. We as a citizen of India must work
hard to gain proper independence. Let us make our country prosperous in all
perspectives.





 